## Training code review

The code in `trainer.py` is very transparent and easy to follow and understand. The code provides a complete end-to-end example, with data loading, training, and evaluation components. The abstractions are pretty good as a starting point: separating the model, dataset, and trainer code into different classes makes sense. The training loop keeps track of training and validation losses over the course of training and performs regular model checkpointing. Some visualization functionality is also provided, plotting the training and validation loss curves at the end of training and plotting the evaluation results after evaluating the trained models. These are all features a good training code base should provide.

The main issue with the code is that most of the important choices we would like to have experimental control over are all directly hard-coded in `trainer.py`: for example, the architecture of the model, the dataset, model hyperparameters, training hyperparameters like the learning rate or batch size, file paths, *etc.*, hence they are impossible to change without modifying the code itself. The initialization method of the `Trainer` class does not even have any arguments to be able to instantiate different choices. The `Trainer` methods also try to do a bit too much: for example, the plotting code inside `train()` and `evaluate()` should probably be separated into a different method to enable more control over the visualizations. Importantly, the code provides no way of keeping track of multiple different experiments: for example, the evaluation results and model checkpoints are always written into the same file. The code lacks even basic tools for reproducibility as well, like the control of random seeds.

I would refactor the code around a configuration-based design. All the important choices we would like to have experimental control over would be defined in configuration files like `.yaml` or `.toml`, instead of being hard-coded in the `Trainer` class (a configuration management system like `hydra` might be considered for complex code bases with lots of design choices). I would then cleanly split the various different components in the current `trainer.py` module into separate modules. For example, different models can be implemented in `models/`, different dataset choices can be implemented in `data/`, different evaluation tasks can be implemented in `eval/`, *etc.* I would also introduce an experiment management system to keep track of all the different experiments: for example, creating unique output folders for each experimental run, saving configs, checkpoints, training and validation metrics, visualizations, *etc.* in those folders (again for complex code bases with lots of experiments, using an experiment management library like `wandb` or `mlflow` might be considered). Finally, I would implement a clean, light-weight interface between the main `Trainer` code and the other modules implementing the models, datasets, evalution tasks, *etc.*: for example, by implementing model, dataset, or evaluation task registries under `models/`, `data/`, and `eval/`, respectively. This would allow collaborators to easily add new models, datasets, or evaluation tasks, without changing anything else in the code base.
